Update to official loki chart and switched to static label map for loki integration (#243)
kyma-project/examples: loki/README.md

> 

Reviewer: General idea: for such long docs that won't be rendered on the website, consider adding a ToC at the beginning.

    helm repo update
    ```

## Install Loki

>**NOTE** Loki can be installed in different [Deployment modes](https://grafana.com/docs/loki/latest/fundamentals/architecture/deployment-modes/) dependent on your scalability needs and storage requirements. This instructions Loki in a lightweight in-cluster solution that does not fulfil production-grade qualities. Consider using a scalable setup based on an object storage backend instead (see [Simple scalable deployment of Grafana Loki with Helm](https://grafana.com/docs/loki/latest/installation/helm/install-scalable/)).

### Installation

You install the Loki stack with a Helm upgrade command, which installs the chart if not present yet.

```bash
helm upgrade --install --create-namespace -n ${KYMA_NS} ${HELM_LOKI_RELEASE} grafana/loki -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/kyma-project/examples/main/loki/loki-values.yaml
```

> In any case, you can either use the [loki-values.yaml](./loki-values.yaml) provided in this `loki` folder, which contains customized settings deviating from the default settings, or create your own `values.yaml` file. The prepared `values.yaml` file activates the `singleBinary` mode and disables additional components which are usually used when running Loki as a central backend. 

Reviewer: The thought jumps from "provided file" to "own file" back to "provided file". Maybe we can simplify this a bit:

```suggestion
In any case, you can either create your own `values.yaml` file, or use the [loki-values.yaml](./loki-values.yaml) provided in this `loki` folder, which contains customized settings deviating from the default settings: The provided `values.yaml` file activates the `singleBinary` mode and disables additional components that are usually used when running Loki as a central backend. 
```

### Verification

Check that the `loki` Pod has been created in the Namespace and is in the `Running` state:

```bash
kubectl -n ${KYMA_NS} get pod -l app.kubernetes.io/name=loki
```

> ## Install log agent

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Log agent installation
```

> ### Installation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Install the log agent
```

To ingest the application logs from within your cluster to Loki, you can either choose an installation based on [Promtail](https://grafana.com/docs/loki/latest/clients/promtail/), which is the log collector recommended by Loki and provides a ready-to-use setup. Alternatively, you can use Kyma's LogPipeline feature based on Fluent Bit.

<div tabs name="default-settings" group="configuration">
  <details>
  <summary label="promtail-installation">

>   Installation of Promtail

Reviewer: Can't edit line 79, but I suggest changing it to:

`Install Fluent Bit with Kyma's LogPipeline`

> >**CAUTION:** This setup uses an unsupported output plugin for the LogPipline. Support for this might be removed in future.

Reviewer: if it's unsupported already, how can support be removed in the future?

> >**CAUTION:** This setup uses an unsupported output plugin for the LogPipline. Support for this might be removed in future.

Author: ```suggestion
>**CAUTION:** This setup uses an unsupported output plugin for the LogPipline.
```

     'time={NANOSECONDS}'
   ```

> ## Install Grafana

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Grafana installation
```

Because Grafana provides a very good Loki integration, you might want to install it as well.

> ### Installation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Install Grafana
```

1. To deploy Grafana, run:

   ```bash
   helm upgrade --install --create-namespace -n ${KYMA_NS} grafana grafana/grafana -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/kyma-project/examples/main/loki/grafana-values.yaml
   ```

> 1. To enable Loki as Grafana Datasource, run:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. To enable Loki as Grafana data source, run:
```

   ```bash
   cat <<EOF | kubectl apply -n ${KYMA_NS} -f -
   apiVersion: v1
   kind: ConfigMap
   metadata:
     name: grafana-loki-datasource
     labels:
       grafana_datasource: "1"
   data:
      loki-datasource.yaml: |-
         apiVersion: 1
         datasources:
         - name: Loki
           type: loki
           access: proxy
           url: "http://${HELM_LOKI_RELEASE}:3100"
           version: 1
           isDefault: false
           jsonData: {}
   EOF
   ```

> 1. To access the Grafana UI with kubectl port forwarding, run:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Get the password to access the Grafana UI:
```

   ```bash
   kubectl get secret --namespace mlp grafana -o jsonpath="{.data.admin-password}" | base64 --decode ; echo
   ```
   

>    to get the password for the access, then run:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1.  To access the Grafana UI with kubectl port forwarding, run:
```

   ```bash
   kubectl -n ${KYMA_NS} port-forward svc/grafana 3000:80
   ```
   

>    Open Grafana in your browser under `http://localhost:3000` and log in with user admin and the password taken from the previous Helm command.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. In your browser, open Grafana under `http://localhost:3000` and log in with user admin and the password you retrieved before.
```

> ## Exposure

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Grafana Exposure

### Expose Grafana
```

All previous sections had a h2 headline first and then the instructions below the h3 headline. Why is it different here?

1. To expose Grafana using the Kyma API Gateway, download the APIRule file and replace the `{release-name}` variable with the name of Helm release:
   ```bash
   curl https://raw.githubusercontent.com/kyma-project/examples/main/loki/apirule.yaml -o apirule.yaml
   ```
1. Create an APIRule:
   ```bash
   kubectl -n ${KYMA_NS} apply -f apirule.yaml 
   ```
1. Get the public URL of your Loki instance:
   ```bash
   kubectl -n ${KYMA_NS} get vs -l apirule.gateway.kyma-project.io/v1beta1=grafana.${KYMA_NS} -ojsonpath='{.items[*].spec.hosts[*]}'
   ```

> ### Add a Link for Grafana to the Kyma Dashboard

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Add a link for Grafana to the Kyma Dashboard
```

> 1. Download the `dashboard-configmap.yaml` file and change `{GRAFANA_LINK}` to the text you retrieved in the previous step.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Download the `dashboard-configmap.yaml` file and change `{GRAFANA_LINK}` to the public URL of your Loki instance.
```
Just guessing this is the relevant text

   ```bash
      curl https://raw.githubusercontent.com/kyma-project/examples/main/loki/dashboard-configmap.yaml -o dashboard-configmap.yaml
   ```

>    You can change the label field to change the name of the tab, and the category tab if you wish to move it to another category.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

1. Optionally, adjust the ConfigMap: You can change the label field to change the name of the tab. If you want to move it to another category, change the category tab.
```

> 1. Apply the ConfigMap, and go to Kyma Dashboard. You should see a Link to the newly exposed Grafana under the Observability section. If you already have a busola-config, merge it with the existing one:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Apply the ConfigMap, and go to Kyma Dashboard. Under the Observability section, you should see a link to the newly exposed Grafana. If you already have a busola-config, merge it with the existing one:
```

   ```bash
   kubectl apply -f dashboard-configmap.yaml 
   ```

>    

Reviewer: How do I see I was successful? Seeing the link is already part of the step instruction, so what comes afterwards to show me I was successful?

## Cleanup

1. To remove the installation from the cluster, run:

   ```bash
   helm delete -n ${KYMA_NS} ${HELM_LOKI_RELEASE}
   helm delete -n ${KYMA_NS} promtail
   helm delete -n ${KYMA_NS} grafana
   ```

> 2. To remove the deployed LogPipeline instance from cluster, run:

Reviewer: At the end of these instructions: How do I see I successfully cleaned up?

</div>

>**NOTE:**

> >- The used output plugin configuration uses a static label map to assign labels of a Pod to Loki log streams. Activating the `     auto_kubernetes_labels` feature for using all labels of a Pod is not recommended performance-wise. Follow [Loki's labelling best practices](https://grafana.com/docs/loki/latest/best-practices/) for a tailor-made setup that fits your workload configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
>- The used output plugin configuration uses a static label map to assign labels of a Pod to Loki log streams. It's not recommended to activate the `     auto_kubernetes_labels` feature for using all labels of a Pod because it affects the performance. Follow [Loki's labelling best practices](https://grafana.com/docs/loki/latest/best-practices/) for a tailor-made setup that fits your workload configuration.
```
